[KB] Update diff scans article for consistency, add Jenkins with GH/multibranch (#1878)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-ci/jenkins-diff-scans.md

---
title: Diff-aware scans with GitHub and Jenkins
description: Set up full and diff-aware scans in Jenkins with Multibranch pipeline projects.
---

# Full and diff-aware scans with GitHub and Jenkins

This guide provides two setup options: one for full Semgrep scans only, and one for full and diff-aware Semgrep scans. Full scans use a simple Pipeline project, while combining full and diff-aware scans uses a Multibranch Pipeline project. Both options use GitHub as the source code manager, with a repository whose default branch is `main`.

:::info
Your UI (user interface) may vary depending on your Jenkins installation. These steps use a Classic UI Jenkins interface.
:::

> ## Full scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up full scans
```

### Create your Jenkinsfile

To start the process, create your initial `Jenkinsfile` in the root of the repository where you're setting up Semgrep. This code snippet uses Jenkins declarative syntax and runs Semgrep in Docker.

```bash
pipeline {
  agent any
  environment {
    // Required for a Semgrep AppSec Platform-connected scan:
    SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN = credentials('SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN')
  }
  stages {
    stage('semgrep-scan') {
      steps {
        sh '''docker pull semgrep/semgrep && \
            docker run \
            -e SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN \
            -v "$(pwd):$(pwd)" --workdir $(pwd) \
            semgrep/semgrep semgrep ci '''
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This Jenkinsfile uses a `SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN` stored in the Jenkins instance credentials store. It does not set any other variables.

### Set up a pipeline

#### Under General

> 1. Check the box "GitHub Project" and enter the URL for the project, `https://github.com/<namespace>/<project>/`

Reviewer: I don't know what it says on the UI, but URL might need to be in bold font if it's a UI element

> 2. Under Build Triggers, select the "GitHub Hook trigger for GITScm polling" box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Build Triggers**, select the **GitHub Hook trigger for GITScm polling** box.
```

#### Under Pipeline

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following details:
```
I'd suggest putting all of the UI elements (e.g., Definition, SCM) in bold and all of the text the user should enter in code font

1. Definition: Pipeline script from SCM
2. SCM: Git
3. Repositories:
    - Repository URL: `https://github.com/<namespace>/<project>/`

>     - Credentials: (select the appropriate credentials for your project)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Credentials: select the appropriate credentials for your project
```

4. Branches to build: `refs/heads/main`

> 5. Additional Behaviours: from the dropdown, select "Check out to specific local branch"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Additional Behaviours: from the drop-down box, select "Check out to specific local branch"
```

    - Enter `**` for Branch name.
6. Script Path: Jenkinsfile

> 7. Check box: Lightweight checkout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select **Lightweight checkout**
```
I'm assuming this is just a list of options without any headers?

2. Click **Add Webhook**.
3. Under **Payload URL**, enter your Jenkins' instance webhook URL. Generally this is in the form `$JENKINS_BASE_URL/github-webhook/`.
4. Select `application/json` for Content-Type.
5. Select **Send me everything**.

With configuration provided previously, findings in Semgrep AppSec Platform appear under the Jenkins project name, rather than under the typical GitHub name `<namespace>/<project>`. To change the name using `SEMGREP_REPO_NAME`, use this Jenkinsfile instead:

```bash
pipeline {
  agent any
  environment {
    // Required for a Semgrep AppSec Platform-connected scan:
    SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN = credentials('SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN')
		// Set typical project (repo) name
    SEMGREP_REPO_NAME = env.GIT_URL.replaceFirst(/^https:\/\/github.com\/(.*)$/, '$1')
  }
  stages {
    stage('semgrep-scan') {
      steps {
        sh '''docker pull semgrep/semgrep && \
            docker run \
            -e SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN \
            -e SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=$SEMGREP_REPO_NAME \
            -v "$(pwd):$(pwd)" --workdir $(pwd) \
            semgrep/semgrep semgrep ci '''
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Adding diff-aware scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up full and diff-aware scans
```

> Semgrep diff-aware scans can be set up in several different ways using Jenkins. This example sets up a Multibranch Pipeline using `when` conditions in the Jenkinsfile, using a full scan configuration based on the example in the preceding section.

Reviewer: I'd suggest replacing the first two paragraphs of this section with something like this:

> This example shows you how to set up full scans that run on the default branch and diff-aware scans that run on PR or MR branches. This is done with a Multibranch Pipeline using `when` conditions in the Jenkinsfile. The Multibranch pipeline provides access to useful variables for the configuration.

This is also minor, but instead of treating this section as additive to the first section where you set up a full scan, I think it might be less confusing if people just started here if they want both full and diff scans

      when {
        branch "PR-*"
      }
      steps {
        sh '''git fetch --no-tags --force --progress -- $GIT_URL +refs/heads/$CHANGE_TARGET:refs/remotes/origin/$CHANGE_TARGET
              git checkout -b $CHANGE_TARGET origin/$CHANGE_TARGET
              git checkout $GIT_BRANCH
           '''
        sh '''docker pull semgrep/semgrep && \
            docker run \
            -e SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN \
            -e SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=$SEMGREP_REPO_NAME \
            -e SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF=$(git merge-base $GIT_BRANCH $CHANGE_TARGET) \
            -e SEMGREP_PR_ID = "${env.CHANGE_ID}"
            -v "$(pwd):$(pwd)" --workdir $(pwd) \
            semgrep/semgrep semgrep ci '''
      }
    }
    stage('semgrep-scan') {
      when {
        branch "main"
      }
      steps {
        sh '''docker pull semgrep/semgrep && \
            docker run \
            -e SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN=$SEMGREP_APP_TOKEN \
            -e SEMGREP_REPO_NAME=$SEMGREP_REPO_NAME \
            -v "$(pwd):$(pwd)" --workdir $(pwd) \
            semgrep/semgrep semgrep ci '''
      }
    }
  }
  post {
    // Clean after build
    always {
      cleanWs()
    }
  }
}
```

> The Jenkinsfile defines two Semgrep stages, each of which is run for certain branches: a diff-aware scan for PR branches, and a full scan for the main branch. This diff-aware scan configuration uses a computed merge base, rather than setting the merge base to the default branch. This is more similar to how Semgrep performs in GitHub actions. Setting the SEMGREP_REPO_NAME and SEMGREP_PR_ID allows Semgrep to identify the connected project and related PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Jenkinsfile defines two Semgrep stages: one stage runs a diff-aware scan for PR or MR branches, while a second stage runs a full scan for the main branch. The diff-aware scan configuration uses a computed merge base, rather than setting the merge base to the default branch. This is similar to how Semgrep runs in GitHub actions. Setting the SEMGREP_REPO_NAME and SEMGREP_PR_ID allows Semgrep to identify the connected project and related PR.
```

Author: This change wouldn't be correct. This guide is specifically for setting up GitHub, which is PR branches. The branches are called PR in Jenkins as well.

> In order to compute the merge-base, the pipeline performs some additional git commands to make the default branch available to git for computation, and cleans the workspace afterwards so those commands can always run successfully in a clean workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compute the merge base, the pipeline runs additional Git commands to ensure that the default branch is available to Git for computation. Afterward, the pipeline cleans the workspace so subsequent use of these commands for future scans is successful.
```

:::info

> Using a computed merge base is strongly recommended. If you instead set `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` to `main` or `master`, you may see spurious findings in diff-aware scans if the remote branch has been updated independently of the PR branch, or the branch may not be available locally unless you perform a `git fetch` or `git checkout` as shown in this example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a computed merge base is strongly recommended. If you set `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` to `main` or `master` instead, you may see spurious findings in diff-aware scans if the remote branch has been updated independently of the PR or MR branch, or the branch may not be available locally unless you perform a `git fetch` or `git checkout`.
```

I don't know if it makes sense to update the final sentence to read, "...or the branch may not be available locally unless you perform a `git fetch` or `git checkout` **manually**"

Author: Not correct to add MR here either, for the same reason.

:::

### Configure the Multibranch pipeline

> - Branch Sources: GitHub

Reviewer: See above for text formatting suggestions

    - Credentials: (select the appropriate credentials for your project)
    - Repository HTTPS URL: `https://github.com/<namespace>/<project>`
- Behaviors:
    - Discover branches
        - Strategy: exclude branches that are also filed as PRs
    - Discover pull requests from origin
        - The current pull request revision
    - Check out to matching local branch
    - Property strategy: all branches get the same properties
- Build Configuration: by Jenkinsfile
- Scan Repository Triggers: periodically if not otherwise run, 30 min (interval configurable)
- Optional: Discard old items (7 days/7 items), so that you don’t lose logs for deleted branches immediately

> If you haven’t already, follow the [On GitHub](#on-github) instructions to configure a webhook to notify Jenkins about PR events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, follow the [On GitHub](#on-github) instructions to configure a webhook to notify Jenkins about PR events.
```

Author: They don't need to do this if they already did - the instructions are in the first section.

---
title: Full and diff-aware scans with GitHub and Jenkins
description: Set up full and diff-aware scans in Jenkins with Multibranch pipeline projects.
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Full and diff-aware scans with GitHub and Jenkins

> This guide shows you how to set up either full scans that run on the default branch, or full and diff-aware scans that run on the default branch and PR branches, respectively. Full scans use a simple Pipeline project. Full and diff-aware scans use a Multibranch Pipeline project. Both options use GitHub as the source code manager, with a repository whose default branch is `main`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to set up:

- Full scans that run on the default branch
- Full and diff-aware scans that run on the default branch and PR branches

Full scans use a simple Pipeline project. Full and diff-aware scans use a Multibranch Pipeline project. Both options use GitHub as the source code manager, with a repository whose default branch is `main`.
```

To compute the merge base, the pipeline runs additional Git commands to ensure that the default branch is available to Git for computation. Afterward, the pipeline cleans the workspace so subsequent use of these commands for future scans is successful.

:::info
Using a computed merge base is strongly recommended. If you instead set `SEMGREP_BASELINE_REF` to `main` or `master` instead, you may see spurious findings in diff-aware scans if the remote branch has been updated independently of the PR branch, or the branch may not be available locally unless you perform a `git fetch` or `git checkout` as shown in this example.
:::

### Configure the Multibranch pipeline

1. Under **Branch Sources**, click **Add source** and select **GitHub**.
2. Select **Repository HTTPS URL** and provide your project URL (in the format `https://github.com/<namespace>/<project>/`).
3. Under **Behaviors**, for **Discover branches**, select **Exclude branches that are also filed as PRs** as the **Strategy**.

> 4. For **Discover pull requests from origin**, select **The current pull request revision** as the **Strategy**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. For **Discover pull requests from origin**, select **The current pull request revision** as the **Strategy**.
```
